FOLKS, THE SUPREME COURT WAS IN
THE NEWS LAST WEEK AGAIN.
WE LEARNED THAT JUSTICE GINSBURG
WAS RECOVERING AFTER A FALL.
SHE'S BACK AT WORK, AND I'M NOT
SURPRISED BECAUSE I KNOW HER
STRENGTH.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, I WORKED OUT
WITH R.B.G.
SO, I WAS DELIGHTED WHEN ANOTHER
SUPREME COURT JUSTICE, SONIA
SOTOMAYOR, AGREED TO SIT DOWN
WITH ME.
( APPLAUSE )
AMAZING.
SECOND OR THIRD TIME.
I'VE TALKED WITH HER BEFORE.
SHE'S AMAZING.
PEOPLE LOVE SONIA.
SHE HAS AN INSPIRING LIFE STORY
WHICH SHE TELLS IN TWO NEW
CHILDREN'S BOOKS: "TURNING
PAGES" AND "THE BELOVED WORLD OF
SONIA SOTOMAYOR."
AND I RECENTLY SAT DOWN WITH
JUSTICE SONIA SOTOMAYOR.
IN OUR NATION'S CAPITAL.
>> Stephen: THE SUPREME COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES.
IN JUST A MOMENT, I'LL BE
SITTING DOWN WITH JUSTICE SONIA
SOTOMAYOR, OVER THERE, AT THE
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.
THEY WOULDN'T LET ME FILM IN
THERE.
I'M NOT ENTIRELY SURE WHY.
BUT, THAT'S NICE, TOO.
JUSTICE, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
TALKING TO ME TODAY.
>> IT'S SO WONDERFUL TO SEE YOU
AGAIN, STEPHEN.
>> Stephen: WHAT'S BEEN GOING
ON IN THE SUPREME COURT LATELY?
I HAVEN'T HEARD MUCH.
ANYTHING-- ANYTHING EXCITING
HAPPENING?
>> JUST READ THE NEWSPAPERS.
>> Stephen: BUT WHAT'S THE HOT
GOSSIP?
WHO'S A DIVA OVER THERE?
>> WE ALL ARE.
(  LAUGHTER  ).
>> Stephen: CONGRATULATIONS ON
NOT ONE BUT TWO NEW BOOKS.
GOT THEM HERE.
"WHOSE BOAT IS THIS BOAT?."
I'M SORRY--
>> THAT ONE'S NOT MINE.
>> Stephen: THAT'S NOT-- NO,
THIS IS MINE.
I'M SORRY.
I APOLOGIZE.
CAN WE--
"WHOSE BOAT--"
I DON'T KNOW WHY WE HAVE TWO
COPIES OF THIS.
I APOLOGIZE.
SORRY.
>> Stephen: "TURNING PAGES."
>> THAT'S MINE.
>> Stephen: WHAT I LIKE ABOUT
THIS IS NOT ONLY IS IT THE NAME
OF YOUR BOOK, BUT IT ALSO-- IT'S
AN INSTRUCTION ON HOW TO READ A
BOOK.
>> WELL, IT'S FOR KIDS FOUR TO
EIGHT YEARS OLD, SO THAT HELPS,
DOESN'T IT?
>> Stephen: I HAVEN'T HAD A
CHANCE TO READ THE BOOK YET,
BUT--
>> STEPHEN, IT WILL TAKE YOU TEN
MINUTES.
>> Stephen: LET'S GO THROUGH IT.
>> OKAY.
>> Stephen: IT'S GOT FANTASTIC
PICTURES.
WHAT MESSAGE DO YOU WANT KIDS TO
GET FROM THIS BOOK?
>> WELL, MY SUCCESS IN LIFE HAS
HAPPENED BECAUSE OF WORDS AND
BOOKS.
READING IS WHAT CHANGED THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF MY LIFE AROUND
AND LET ME BECOME A SUPREME
COURT JUSTICE.
AND THAT IS WHAT THE MESSAGE OF
THIS BOOK IS.
>> Stephen: NOW THIS IS A FAIRLY
UNREALISTIC DRAWING.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: I BELIEVE YOU CAN
FLY.
>> I DON'T.
>> Stephen: THEY MUST GIVE YOU
SOME SORT OF SUPERPOWERS WHEN
YOU BECOME A MEMBER OF THE
SUPREME COURT.
>> NOT REALLY.
>> Stephen: WE DON'T KNOW
ANYTHING YOU FOLKS DO IN THERE.
IT'S ALL CLOSED OFF.
THERE'S NO CAMERAS.
>> YOU CAN COME VISIT.
>> Stephen: IT'S LIKE A TEMPLE
IN THERE.
>> YOU CAN COME VISIT THE
SUPREME COURT ANY TIME YOU WANT.
>> Stephen: AND CAN WE SEE WHAT
YOU GUYS ARE DOING BACK IN THE
CHAMBERS?
>> WELL, NO.
>> Stephen: WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
GOING ON.
IT'S A SECRET SOCIETY.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
DOING IN YOUR OFFICE.
>> Stephen: OH, YOU CAN COME
ANYTIME YOU WANT.
>> BUT YOU CAN COME, AND IF I
WANT TO SEE YOU.
>> Stephen: SURE.
NO, YOU CAN GO TO
StephenColbert.org, AND I'M
LIVE-STREAMING MY OFFICE AT ALL
TIMES.
>> IS THAT TRUE?
>> Stephen: HEY, JIMMY, LET'S
CUT TO THE LIVE-STREAM RIGHT
NOW.
>> HOLD ON.
♪ YOU SPIN ME RIGHT ROUND, BABY,
RIGHT ROUND,
♪ LIKE A RECORD BABY ♪
>> Stephen: ALL RIGHT.
HAVE YOU EVER COMMITTED A CRIME?
>> OOOOH.
>> Stephen: STEAL A CANDY BAR OR
ANYTHING AS A CHILD?
>> NO.
>> Stephen: NO?
>> BUT I DID TAKE A QUARTER FROM
A TELEPHONE-- A PUBLIC
TELEPHONE--
>> Stephen: WHAT?
>> IN MY LIFE, YEAH.
>> Stephen: A PUBLIC TELEPHONE?
>> UH-HUH.
>> Stephen: THAT'S INTERSTATE
COMMERCE, BECAUSE THAT'S LONG-
DISTANCE CALLS ON THOSE.
>> I KNOW.
THANKFULLY--
>> Stephen: THAT'S A FEDERAL
CRIME.
YOU KNOW, IT'S ONLY A QUARTER,
BUT LITTLE THINGS LEAD TO BIG
THINGS.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
>> Stephen: THAT'S A GATEWAY
CRIME.
>> THANKFULLY, THE STATUTE OF
LIMITATIONS HAS PASSED.
>> Stephen: HOLD ON ONE SECOND.
LET'S GET A LAWYER ON THAT,
PLEASE.
>> PROBABLY MOST CITIZENS AT
SOME POINT IN THEIR LIFE WHO
DRIVE HAVE GONE OVER THE SPEED
LIMIT.
>> Stephen: I HAVE NOT.
>> THAT'S A CRIME, TOO.
>> Stephen: I HAVE NEVER.
>> YOU'VE NEVER GONE-- STEPHEN?
>> Stephen: I'VE NEVER GONE--
>> YOU'RE CATHOLIC, AREN'T YOU?
>> YES, I'M A CATHOLIC.
DOMINUS VOBISCUM.
>> UH-HUH, AND YOU KNOW YOU'RE
NOT SUPPOSED TO LIE.
>> Stephen: I-- I DO.
I-- I KNOW I'M NOT SUPPOSED
TO LIE.
>> TELL ME THAT YOU'VE NEVER
GONE OVER THE SPEED LIMIT.
>> Stephen: I WOULD LIKE TO
INVOKE MY FIFTH AMENDMENT RIGHT
AGAINST SELF-INCRIMINATION.
(  LAUGHTER  )
NOW, YOU HAVE ANOTHER BOOK.
YOU HAVE ANOTHER BOOK--
>> I HAVE.
>> Stephen: --FOR SLIGHTLY OLDER
CHILDREN.
>> MIDDLE SCHOOL CHILDREN.
>> Stephen: IT'S CALLED "THE
BELOVED WORLD OF SONIA
SOTOMAYOR."
IT'S A NICE TITLE.
COULD I IMPROVE IT SLIGHTLY
FOR YOU?
>> GO AHEAD.
>> Stephen: "THE WORLD OF THE
BELOVED SONIA SOTOMAYOR."
>> OH, THAT'S VERY SWEET OF YOU,
STEPHEN.
>> Stephen: YOU SEEM NICE.
I'M SORRY YOU HAVE TO LIVE IN
WASHINGTON.
YOU WRITE THAT WHEN YOU WERE A
CHILD, YOU USED BOOKS TO ESCAPE
SADNESS.
>> UH-HUH.
>> Stephen: WHAT DO YOU USE TO
ESCAPE SADNESS AS AN ADULT?
>> I LOVE PLAYING POKER, SO I
PLAY--
>> Stephen: REALLY?
>> --POKER WITH FRIENDS.
>> Stephen: AND DO YOU EVER PLAY
FOR JUST, LIKE, SMALL STAKES, OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT?
JUST A LITTLE FAMILY--
>> PRETTY MUCH ALMOST ALWAYS
SMALL STAKES.
>> Stephen: SMALL STAKES.
IT'S STILL ILLEGAL TO
GAMBLE FOR SMALL STAKES, JUST--
>> NO, BECAUSE I PROVIDE--
>> Stephen: IT'S NOT ILLEGAL IN
D.C.?
>> I PROVIDE THE FOOD.
THE PLAYERS AROUND MY TABLE ARE
JUST PAYING FOR THEIR OWN FOOD.
>> Stephen: THAT IS LEGALESE IF
I EVER HEARD IT.
COME ON, THAT'S NEVER GOING TO
HOLD UP IN A COURT.
>> WHY NOT?
>> Stephen: GET A LAWYER IN
HERE.
>> WHY NOT?
>> Stephen: YOU'RE-- YOU'RE
RUNNING-- YOU'RE RUNNING A
GAMBLING DEN.
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
>> Stephen: HOW DO WE KNOW THAT
YOU'RE IN CHARGE?
I'D LIKE TO SEE SOME RECEIPTS,
PLEASE.
>> OH, THAT'S EASY FOR ME TO
GIVE YOU.
>> Stephen: OKAY, STEALING
QUARTERS TO FEED YOUR GAMBLING
PROBLEM.
ALL RIGHT, OKAY.
YOU SPEND A LOT OF YOUR DAY
MAKING BIG CALLS, ALL RIGHT?
THERE'S NO BIGGER CALLS THAN
DECIDING WHAT THE CONSTITUTION
WILL ALLOW.
I'D LIKE YOU TO USE YOUR
JUDICIAL ACUMEN RIGHT NOW TO
MAKE SOME VERY QUICK, VERY SMALL
CALLS.
>> OKAY.
>> Stephen: JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR,
DO ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN?
>> YES.
>> Stephen: IS IT OKAY TO TALK
A PENNY IF YOU NEVER LEAVE A
PENNY?
>> NO.
>> Stephen: IS IT EVER OKAY TO
MICROWAVE FISH?
>> NO.
>> Stephen: IF THERE'S SOMETHING
STRANGE IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD,
WHO YOU GONNA CALL?
>> IF THERE'S SOMETHING STRANGE
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD--
>> Stephen: NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> IF YOU MEAN "STRANGE" BY
DANGEROUS FOR MYSELF OR OTHERS,
I WOULD CALL--
>> Stephen: POSSIBLY.
>> THE POLICE.
>> Stephen: POSSIBLY, BUT WHAT
IF IT WAS SPOOKY?
WHAT IF IT WAS SOMETHING SPOOKY
OR OTHERWORLDLY?
SOMETHING STRANGE IN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WHO YOU GONNA CALL?
>> THAT DIDN'T POSE ME AN-- POSE
ANY DANGER TO ME.
>> Stephen: IT COULD POSE A
DANGER TO YOU IF--
>> THEN I STILL MIGHT CALL THE
POLICE.
>> Stephen: OKAY, WHAT IF THE
POLICE COULDN'T HANDLE THIS
PARTICULAR DANGER?
PERHAPS IF IT WAS AN ETHEREAL OR
SPIRITUAL DANGER?
PERHAPS THERE WERE--
>> AHHH.
>> Stephen: GHOSTS.
WHO-- WHO YOU GONNA CALL?
>> OH, THAT'S A FASCINATING
QUESTION.
>> Stephen: ALL OF MINE ARE.
>> AND THE-- AND MOST OF THEM
ARE--
WHO WOULD I CALL?
>> Stephen: WHO WOULD YOU CALL?
>> I'D GO GET THE POLICE
FOR SURE.
>> Stephen: JUDGES?
OH, YOU'RE THE JUDGE.
I'M SORRY.
WE ALREADY HAVE A RULING FROM
ONE OF YOUR COLLEAGUES, RUTH
BADER GINSBURG, ON THIS, PERHAPS
ONE OF THE MOST DIVISIVE ISSUES
IN AMERICA TODAY.
BUT I WANT TO POSE IT TO YOU TO
SEE IF WE HAVE A CONCURRENCE.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR, IS A HOT DOG
A SANDWICH?
>> THIS IS NOT FAIR, 'CAUSE I
WATCHED HER INTERVIEW WITH YOU.
AND SHE ASKED--
>> Stephen: WELL, I MEAN, SURELY
YOU SEE OTHER PEOPLE'S ORAL
ARGUMENTS.
PERHAPS-- PERHAPS YOU CAN RENDER
YOUR OWN JUDGMENTS.
OR ARE YOU SO INFLUENCED BY RUTH
BADER GINSBURG THAT YOU CAN'T
HAVE YOUR OWN OPINION, MADAME
JUSTICE, AS NO ONE CALLS YOU?
>> WELL, I CAN APPROACH THE
PROBLEM IN A DIFFERENT WAY THAN
SHE DID.
>> Stephen: ALL RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT, MY DEFINITION OF
SANDWICH IS SOMETHING BETWEEN
TWO PARTS OF A BREAD, OR TWO
SLICES OF A BREAD.
AND UNDER THAT DEFINITION, A HOT
DOG CAN BE, BECAUSE WHETHER THE
BREADS ARE TIED TOGETHER OR NOT
IS IRRELEVANT.
SO I WOULD ANSWER YES, UNDER
THOSE-- UNDER THAT DEFINITION.
>> Stephen: SO YOU'RE WILLING
TO SAY HOT DOG IS A SANDWICH.
>> AND, BY THE WAY, I LOVE HOT
DOGS.
>> Stephen: JUSTICE, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR TALKING TO ME TODAY.
CHEERS.
>> SALUD.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: ROOM TEMPERATURE.
(  LAUGHTER  )
>> Stephen: BOTH HER BOOKS ARE
AVAILABLE NOW.
THANK YOU, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR!
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH
TIMOTHEE CHALAMET!